docs: user documentation for NFS (#315)
kyma-project/cloud-manager: docs/user/tutorials/01-10-aws-nfs-volume.md

# AWS NFS Volume

This tutorial explains how to create and use RWX volume in AWS cloud provider that can be used from multiple workloads.

## Steps <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

1. Create a namespace and export its value as an environment variable. Run:

   ```shell
   export NAMESPACE={NAMESPACE_NAME}
   kubectl create ns $NAMESPACE
   ```
   
2. Create AwsNfsVolume resource.

   ```shell
   cat <<EOF | kubectl -n $NAMESPACE apply -f -
   apiVersion: cloud-resources.kyma-project.io/v1beta1
   kind: AwsNfsVolume
   metadata:
     name: my-vol
   spec:
     capacity: 100G
   EOF
   ```
   
3. Wait for AwsNfsVolume to get Ready condition.

   ```shell
   kubectl -n $NAMESPACE wait --for=condition=Ready awsnfsvolume/my-vol --timeout=300s
   ```

   Once created AwsNfsVolume is provisioned this command should terminate with message:

   ```
   awsnfsvolume.cloud-resources.kyma-project.io/my-vol condition met
   ```
   
4. Observe the generated PersistentVolume:
   
   ```shell
   kubectl -n $NAMESPACE get persistentvolume my-vol
   ```
   

>    This command should print:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You should see the following details:
```

   
   ```
   NAME     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   RECLAIM POLICY   STATUS   CLAIM            STORAGECLASS
   my-vol   100G       RWX            Retain           Bound    test-mt/my-vol               
   ```
   

>    Note the RWX access mode which allows volume to be readable and writable from multiple workloads, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Note the `RWX` access mode which allows the volume to be readable and writable from multiple workloads, and the
```

>    Bound status which means PersistentVolumeClaim claiming this PV is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the `Bound` status which means the PersistentVolumeClaim claiming this PV is created.
```

   
5. Observe the generated PersistentVolumeClaim:

   ```shell
   kubectl -n $NAMESPACE get persistentvolumeclaim my-vol
   ```

>    This command should print:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   You should see the following message:
```

   ```
   NAME     STATUS   VOLUME   CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS 
   my-vol   Bound    my-vol   100G       RWX                         
   ```

>    Similarly to PV, note the RWX access mode and Bound status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Similarly to PV, note the `RWX` access mode and `Bound` status.
```

> 6. Create two workloads that both will write to the volume

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Create two workloads that both write to the volume
```
What does it mean that the workloads write to the volume?

Author: Both workloads writing to volume means there are two pods with apps writing to the same file on that NFS disk / volume

         sleep 1
       done
       echo "File content:"
       cat /mnt/data/test.log
       sleep 864000
   ---
   apiVersion: apps/v1
   kind: Deployment
   metadata:
     name: awsnfsvolume-demo
   spec:
     selector:
       matchLabels:
         app: awsnfsvolume-demo
     replicas: 2
     template:
       metadata:
         labels:
           app: awsnfsvolume-demo
       spec:
         containers:
           - name: my-container
             image: ubuntu  
             command: 
               - "/bin/bash"
             args:
               - "/script/my-script.sh"
             env:
               - name: NAME
                 valueFrom:
                   fieldRef:
                     fieldPath: metadata.name
             volumeMounts:
               - name: my-script-volume
                 mountPath: /script
               - name: data
                 mountPath: /mnt/data
         volumes:
           - name: my-script-volume
             configMap:
               name: my-script
               defaultMode: 0744 
           - name: data
             persistentVolumeClaim:
               claimName: my-vol 
   EOF
   ``` 
   

>    This workload will print a sequence of 20 lines to stdout and a file on the nfs volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This workload should print a sequence of 20 lines to stdout and a file on the NFS volume.
```

>    Then it will print the content of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Then it should print the content of the file.
```

> 7. Print the logs of one of the workloads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Print the logs of one of the workloads, run:
```

   ```shell
   kubectl logs -n $NAMESPACE `kubectl get pod -n $NAMESPACE -l app=awsnfsvolume-demo -o=jsonpath='{.items[0].metadata.name}'`
   ```
   
   The command should print something like:
   ```
   ...
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-dsw97: 19
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-dsw97: 20
   File content:
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-8z9zl: 20
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-l8hrb: 1
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-dsw97: 1
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-l8hrb: 2
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-dsw97: 2
   Hello from awsnfsvolume-demo-869c89df4c-l8hrb: 3
   ...
   ```
   
   Note that the content after `File content:` contains prints from both workloads. This 
   demonstrates the ReadWriteMany capability of the volume.

> 8. Clean up

Reviewer: The clean-up steps can be formatted as an unordered list.

   Remove the created workloads:
   ```shell
   kubectl delete -n $NAMESPACE deployment awsnfsvolume-demo
   ```

   Remove the created configmap:
   ```shell
   kubectl delete -n $NAMESPACE configmap my-script
   ```

   Remove the created awsnfsvolume:
   ```shell
   kubectl delete -n $NAMESPACE awsnfsvolume my-vol
   ```

   Remove the created default iprange:

   > [!NOTE]
   > If you have other cloud resources using the default IpRange,

>    > then you should skip this step, and not delete the default IpRange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   > skip this step, and do not delete the default IpRange.
```

    ```shell
    kubectl delete -n kyma-system iprange default
    ```

  * Remove the created namespace:
    ```shell
    kubectl delete namespace $NAMESPACE

>     ```

Reviewer: We could indent those bullet points so that they show up under step 8.
